README.md, before:

<div align="center">
<img width="100px" alt="mcaptcha logo" src="./docs/res/icon-trans.png" />
  <h1>mCaptcha</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>
Proof of work based, privacy respecting CAPTCHA system with a kickass UX. 
</strong>
  </p>

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-master-blue?style=flat-square)](https://mcaptcha.github.io/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/)
[![Build](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/actions/workflows/linux.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/actions/workflows/linux.yml)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mcaptcha/mcaptcha)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mcaptcha/mcaptcha)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/mCaptcha/mCaptcha)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/mCaptcha/mCaptcha)
<br />
[![AGPL License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/matrix-+mcaptcha:matrix.batsense.net-purple?style=flat-square)](https://matrix.to/#/+mcaptcha:matrix.batsense.net)

**STATUS: ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT**

</div>

</div>

---

## Fork: Custom Branding & Favicon Support

> **This is a fork of [mCaptcha/mCaptcha](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha)** with added support for custom branding via environment variables.

### What this fork adds

This fork introduces configurable widget branding so you can customize the logo, brand name, and brand link displayed in the mCaptcha CAPTCHA widget. It also supports auto-detecting the embedding site's favicon for use as the widget logo.

#### Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|---|---|
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_URL` | Custom logo URL — overrides the default mCaptcha logo in the widget |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_NAME` | Brand name shown under the logo (defaults to `"mCaptcha"`) |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_LINK` | URL the widget logo links to (defaults to mCaptcha homepage) |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_USE_FAVICON` | Set to `true` to auto-detect the embedding site's favicon as the widget logo. Falls back to `MCAPTCHA_logo_URL` (if set) or the default mCaptcha logo on failure. |

### Docker image

This fork publishes Docker images to GitHub Container Registry:

```
ghcr.io/brandonjp/mcaptcha:latest
```

#### Docker Compose example

```yaml
version: "3.9"

services:
  mcaptcha:
    image: ghcr.io/brandonjp/mcaptcha:latest
    ports:
      - 7000:7000
    depends_on:
      - mcaptcha_postgres
      - mcaptcha_redis
    environment:
      # Server
      MCAPTCHA_server_DOMAIN: mcaptcha.example.com
      MCAPTCHA__server_COOKIE_SECRET: change-me-to-a-random-string-min-32-chars
      MCAPTCHA__server_IP: 0.0.0.0
      MCAPTCHA__server_PROXY_HAS_TLS: "true"
      PORT: "7000"
      # Database
      DATABASE_URL: postgres://mcaptcha:password@mcaptcha_postgres:5432/mcaptcha
      MCAPTCHA_database_POOL: "4"
      # Redis
      MCAPTCHA_redis_URL: redis://mcaptcha_redis
      MCAPTCHA_redis_POOL: "4"
      # Captcha
      MCAPTCHA_captcha_SALT: change-me-to-a-random-string-min-32-chars
      # Branding (optional)
      MCAPTCHA_logo_USE_FAVICON: "true"
      MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_NAME: "Secured by mCaptcha"
      MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_LINK: "https://mcaptcha.org"
      # MCAPTCHA_logo_URL: "https://example.com/your-logo.png"

  mcaptcha_postgres:
    image: postgres:17
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: mcaptcha
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_DB: mcaptcha
    volumes:
      - mcaptcha-data:/var/lib/postgresql

  mcaptcha_redis:
    image: mcaptcha/cache:latest

volumes:
  mcaptcha-data:
```

---

**Skip to [demo](#demo)**

[mCaptcha](https://mcaptcha.org) is a privacy respecting, _free_ CAPTCHA
system with a kickass UX. Your users no longer have to interact with
ridiculous image-based CAPTCHA system, wasting precious mental
bandwidth. Instead, your computer will do the work for you, [see for
yourself!](https://demo.mcaptcha.org/widget/?sitekey=pHy0AktWyOKuxZDzFfoaewncWecCHo23)

## How does it work?

mCaptcha uses SHA256 based proof-of-work (PoW) to rate limit users.

When a user wants to do something on a mCaptcha-protected website,

1. they will have to generate proof-of-work (a bunch of math that will takes
   time to compute) and submit it to mCaptcha.

2. We'll validate the proof:

    - **if validation is unsuccessful**, they will be prevented from
      accessing their target website
    - **if validation is successful**, read on,

3. They will be issued a token that they should submit along
   with their request/form submission to the target website.

4. The target website should validate the user-submitted token with mCaptcha
   before processing the user's request.

The whole process is automated from the user's POV. All they have to do
is click on a button to initiate the process.

mCaptcha makes interacting with websites (computationally) expensive for
the user. A well-behaving user will experience a slight delay (no delay
when under moderate load to 2s when under attack; PoW difficulty is
variable) but if someone wants to hammer your site, they will have to do
more work to send requests than your server will have to do to respond
to their request.

## Why use mCaptcha?

-   [x] **Free software, privacy focused**
-   [x] **Seamless UX** - No more annoying CAPTCHAs!
-   [x] **No tracking:** Our CAPTCHA routes are cookie free!
-   [x] **IP address independent:** your users are behind a NAT? We got you covered!
-   [x] **Resistant to replay attacks:** proof-of-work configurations have
        short lifetimes (30s) and can be used only once. If a user submits a
        PoW to an already used configuration or an expired one, their proof
        will be rejected.

## Demo

## Client-side widget:

mCaptcha's UX is super silent, solving CAPTCHAs have never been more
easier. One click and you are on your way.
To observe mCaptcha in action, open dev tools and
monitor console and network activity.

1. [Link to widget](https://demo.mcaptcha.org/widget/?sitekey=pHy0AktWyOKuxZDzFfoaewncWecCHo23)

2. [Video](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/blob/master/docs/res/widget-in-action.mp4?raw=true):

### Demo servers are available at:

-   https://demo.mcaptcha.org/
-   https://demo2.mcaptcha.org/ (runs on a Raspberry Pi!)

> Core functionality is working but it's still very much
> work-in-progress. Since we don't have a stable release yet, hosted
> demo servers might be a few versions behind `master`. Please check footer for
> build commit.

Feel free to provide bogus information while signing up (project under
development, database frequently wiped).

### Self-hosted:

Clone the repo and run the following from the root of the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha.git
docker-compose up -d
```

After the containers are up, visit [http://localhost:7000](http://localhost:7000) and login with the default credentials:

-   username: aaronsw
-   password: password

It takes a while to build the image so please be patient :)

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](./docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed alternate deployment
methods.

## Development:

See [HACKING.md](./docs/HACKING.md)

## Deployment:

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](./docs/DEPLOYMENT.md)

## Configuration:

See [CONFIGURATION.md](./docs/CONFIGURATION.md)

## Funding

### NLnet

<div align="center">
	<img
		height="150px"
		alt="NLnet NGIZero logo"
		src="./docs/third-party/NGIZero-green.hex.svg"
	/>
</div>

<br />

2023 development is funded through the [NGI0 Entrust
Fund](https://nlnet.nl/entrust), via [NLnet](https://nlnet.nl/). Please
see [here](https://nlnet.nl/project/mCaptcha/) for more details.

Commit message:

feat: add configurable favicon providers with privacy-safe default
Add MCAPTCHA_logo_FAVICON_PROVIDERS env var to control which favicon
sources the widget tries. Available providers: direct, duckduckgo,
google, iconhorse, favicone, all.

Default is "direct" which only fetches /favicon.ico from the embedding
site itself, making zero third-party requests. Users can opt into
external services by setting e.g. "direct,duckduckgo" or "all".

Also rewrites README fork section to accurately describe the feature
as favicon detection from the embedding site, not "custom branding".

https://claude.ai/code/session_01KXW1k4AAaMFkRX3S2m23ai

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
<img width="100px" alt="mcaptcha logo" src="./docs/res/icon-trans.png" />
  <h1>mCaptcha</h1>
  <p>
    <strong>
Proof of work based, privacy respecting CAPTCHA system with a kickass UX. 
</strong>
  </p>

[![Documentation](https://img.shields.io/badge/docs-master-blue?style=flat-square)](https://mcaptcha.github.io/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/)
[![Build](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/actions/workflows/linux.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/actions/workflows/linux.yml)
[![Docker](https://img.shields.io/docker/pulls/mcaptcha/mcaptcha)](https://hub.docker.com/r/mcaptcha/mcaptcha)
[![dependency status](https://deps.rs/repo/github/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/status.svg?style=flat-square)](https://deps.rs/repo/github/mCaptcha/mCaptcha)
[![codecov](https://codecov.io/gh/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/branch/master/graph/badge.svg?style=flat-square)](https://codecov.io/gh/mCaptcha/mCaptcha)
<br />
[![AGPL License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-AGPL-blue.svg?style=flat-square)](http://www.gnu.org/licenses/agpl-3.0)
[![Chat](https://img.shields.io/badge/matrix-+mcaptcha:matrix.batsense.net-purple?style=flat-square)](https://matrix.to/#/+mcaptcha:matrix.batsense.net)

**STATUS: ACTIVE DEVELOPMENT**

</div>

</div>

---

## Fork: Widget Favicon from Embedding Site

> **This is a fork of [mCaptcha/mCaptcha](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha).**

### What this fork adds

When a site embeds the mCaptcha widget, this fork can automatically display that site's favicon in the widget instead of the default mCaptcha logo. It detects the embedding site's domain via `document.referrer` and fetches the favicon from configurable sources.

By default, only the site's own `/favicon.ico` is tried (no third-party requests). You can optionally enable external favicon services (DuckDuckGo, Google, Icon Horse, Favicone) as fallbacks if the direct favicon isn't available.

It also exposes a few environment variables to override the widget's logo URL, brand name, and brand link.

#### Environment variables

| Variable | Description |
|---|---|
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_USE_FAVICON` | Set to `true` to auto-detect the embedding site's favicon as the widget logo. Falls back to `MCAPTCHA_logo_URL` (if set) or the default mCaptcha logo on failure. |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_FAVICON_PROVIDERS` | Comma-separated list of favicon sources to try, in order. Available: `direct`, `duckduckgo`, `google`, `iconhorse`, `favicone`, `all`. Default: `direct` (only fetches `/favicon.ico` from the site itself — no third-party requests). |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_URL` | Static logo URL — overrides the default mCaptcha logo in the widget |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_NAME` | Brand name shown under the logo (defaults to `"mCaptcha"`) |
| `MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_LINK` | URL the widget logo links to (defaults to mCaptcha homepage) |

### Docker image

This fork publishes Docker images to GitHub Container Registry:

```
ghcr.io/brandonjp/mcaptcha:latest
```

#### Docker Compose example

```yaml
version: "3.9"

services:
  mcaptcha:
    image: ghcr.io/brandonjp/mcaptcha:latest
    ports:
      - 7000:7000
    depends_on:
      - mcaptcha_postgres
      - mcaptcha_redis
    environment:
      # Server
      MCAPTCHA_server_DOMAIN: mcaptcha.example.com
      MCAPTCHA__server_COOKIE_SECRET: change-me-to-a-random-string-min-32-chars
      MCAPTCHA__server_IP: 0.0.0.0
      MCAPTCHA__server_PROXY_HAS_TLS: "true"
      PORT: "7000"
      # Database
      DATABASE_URL: postgres://mcaptcha:password@mcaptcha_postgres:5432/mcaptcha
      MCAPTCHA_database_POOL: "4"
      # Redis
      MCAPTCHA_redis_URL: redis://mcaptcha_redis
      MCAPTCHA_redis_POOL: "4"
      # Captcha
      MCAPTCHA_captcha_SALT: change-me-to-a-random-string-min-32-chars
      # Favicon / Branding (optional)
      MCAPTCHA_logo_USE_FAVICON: "true"
      # MCAPTCHA_logo_FAVICON_PROVIDERS: "direct"  # default; use "all" to enable third-party fallbacks
      MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_NAME: "Secured by mCaptcha"
      MCAPTCHA_logo_BRAND_LINK: "https://mcaptcha.org"
      # MCAPTCHA_logo_URL: "https://example.com/your-logo.png"

  mcaptcha_postgres:
    image: postgres:17
    environment:
      POSTGRES_USER: mcaptcha
      POSTGRES_PASSWORD: password
      POSTGRES_DB: mcaptcha
    volumes:
      - mcaptcha-data:/var/lib/postgresql

  mcaptcha_redis:
    image: mcaptcha/cache:latest

volumes:
  mcaptcha-data:
```

---

**Skip to [demo](#demo)**

[mCaptcha](https://mcaptcha.org) is a privacy respecting, _free_ CAPTCHA
system with a kickass UX. Your users no longer have to interact with
ridiculous image-based CAPTCHA system, wasting precious mental
bandwidth. Instead, your computer will do the work for you, [see for
yourself!](https://demo.mcaptcha.org/widget/?sitekey=pHy0AktWyOKuxZDzFfoaewncWecCHo23)

## How does it work?

mCaptcha uses SHA256 based proof-of-work (PoW) to rate limit users.

When a user wants to do something on a mCaptcha-protected website,

1. they will have to generate proof-of-work (a bunch of math that will takes
   time to compute) and submit it to mCaptcha.

2. We'll validate the proof:

    - **if validation is unsuccessful**, they will be prevented from
      accessing their target website
    - **if validation is successful**, read on,

3. They will be issued a token that they should submit along
   with their request/form submission to the target website.

4. The target website should validate the user-submitted token with mCaptcha
   before processing the user's request.

The whole process is automated from the user's POV. All they have to do
is click on a button to initiate the process.

mCaptcha makes interacting with websites (computationally) expensive for
the user. A well-behaving user will experience a slight delay (no delay
when under moderate load to 2s when under attack; PoW difficulty is
variable) but if someone wants to hammer your site, they will have to do
more work to send requests than your server will have to do to respond
to their request.

## Why use mCaptcha?

-   [x] **Free software, privacy focused**
-   [x] **Seamless UX** - No more annoying CAPTCHAs!
-   [x] **No tracking:** Our CAPTCHA routes are cookie free!
-   [x] **IP address independent:** your users are behind a NAT? We got you covered!
-   [x] **Resistant to replay attacks:** proof-of-work configurations have
        short lifetimes (30s) and can be used only once. If a user submits a
        PoW to an already used configuration or an expired one, their proof
        will be rejected.

## Demo

## Client-side widget:

mCaptcha's UX is super silent, solving CAPTCHAs have never been more
easier. One click and you are on your way.
To observe mCaptcha in action, open dev tools and
monitor console and network activity.

1. [Link to widget](https://demo.mcaptcha.org/widget/?sitekey=pHy0AktWyOKuxZDzFfoaewncWecCHo23)

2. [Video](https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha/blob/master/docs/res/widget-in-action.mp4?raw=true):

### Demo servers are available at:

-   https://demo.mcaptcha.org/
-   https://demo2.mcaptcha.org/ (runs on a Raspberry Pi!)

> Core functionality is working but it's still very much
> work-in-progress. Since we don't have a stable release yet, hosted
> demo servers might be a few versions behind `master`. Please check footer for
> build commit.

Feel free to provide bogus information while signing up (project under
development, database frequently wiped).

### Self-hosted:

Clone the repo and run the following from the root of the repo:

```bash
git clone https://github.com/mCaptcha/mCaptcha.git
docker-compose up -d
```

After the containers are up, visit [http://localhost:7000](http://localhost:7000) and login with the default credentials:

-   username: aaronsw
-   password: password

It takes a while to build the image so please be patient :)

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](./docs/DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed alternate deployment
methods.

## Development:

See [HACKING.md](./docs/HACKING.md)

## Deployment:

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](./docs/DEPLOYMENT.md)

## Configuration:

See [CONFIGURATION.md](./docs/CONFIGURATION.md)

## Funding

### NLnet

<div align="center">
	<img
		height="150px"
		alt="NLnet NGIZero logo"
		src="./docs/third-party/NGIZero-green.hex.svg"
	/>
</div>

<br />

2023 development is funded through the [NGI0 Entrust
Fund](https://nlnet.nl/entrust), via [NLnet](https://nlnet.nl/). Please
see [here](https://nlnet.nl/project/mCaptcha/) for more details.
